.\" Man page for Gothic2Notr (OpenGothic)
.TH GOTHIC2NOTR 6 "January 2026" "OpenGothic" "Games"
.SH NAME
Gothic2Notr \- open source re-implementation of Gothic 2: Night of the Raven
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B Gothic2Notr
.RB [ \-g
.IR path ]
.RB [ \-game:\fImodfile.ini\fR ]
.RB [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B OpenGothic
is a feature-complete Gothic game client, compatible with the original
game data and mods. It makes the original Gothic 1 and Gothic 2 work on
modern systems using Vulkan graphics (or Metal on macOS, DirectX 12 on Windows).
.PP
Gothic 2: Night of the Raven is required as OpenGothic does not provide
any built-in game assets or scripts.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-g " path"
Specify the path containing Gothic game data. If not provided, OpenGothic
attempts to auto-detect common installation paths.
.TP
.BI \-game: modfile.ini
Specify a game modification manifest file (GothicStarter compatibility).
.TP
.B \-nomenu
Skip the main menu and start the game directly.
.TP
.B \-devmode
Enable marvin-mode (developer/debug mode) at the start of the game.
.TP
.BI \-w " worldname.zen"
Specify the startup world. Default is newworld.zen.
.TP
.B \-save q
Load the quick save on start.
.TP
.BI \-save " number"
Load a specified save-game slot on start.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-validation
Enable validation layers for the graphics API (useful for debugging).
.TP
.B \-dx12
Force DirectX 12 renderer instead of Vulkan (Windows only).
.TP
.B \-g1
Assume a Gothic 1 installation.
.TP
.B \-g2c
Assume a Gothic 2 classic installation (without Night of the Raven).
.TP
.B \-g2
Assume a Gothic 2: Night of the Raven installation.
.TP
.BI \-rt " boolean"
Explicitly enable or disable ray-query. Affects only capable hardware.
Off by default for integrated GPUs.
.TP
.BI \-gi " boolean"
Explicitly enable or disable ray-traced global illumination.
.TP
.BI \-ms " boolean"
Explicitly enable or disable meshlets (mesh shaders).
.TP
.BI \-aa " number"
Enable anti-aliasing. Number can be 0-2, where 2 is the most expensive AA.
.TP
.B \-window
Windowed debugging mode (not recommended for normal play).
.SH GRAPHICS OPTIONS
The in-game menu provides additional graphics settings:
.TP
.B Cloud Shadows
Mapped to SSAO (Screen Space Ambient Occlusion).
.TP
.B Radial Fog
Mapped to volumetric fog.
.TP
.B Reflections
Screen space reflections.
.TP
.B Video settings
Internal 3D rendering resolution can be altered here. UI and text
are always rendered at full resolution.
.SH MODIFICATIONS
Mods can be installed as usual. Provide the modfile.ini to OpenGothic via
the
.B \-game:
parameter to play.
.PP
.B Supported:
Content mods (retexture/reworld/animations) that only rely on regular
scripting and do not use memory hacking.
.PP
.B Not supported:
Ikarus/LeGo (partial support in progress), Union, DX11 Renderer,
AST SDK, Ninja.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I save_slot_0.sav
Quick save file, stored in the current working directory.
.TP
.I save_slot_1.sav " ... " save_slot_15.sav
Regular save files, stored in the current working directory.
.TP
.I log.txt
Log file created in the current working directory.
.PP
On macOS, if Gothic data is located in
.IR ~/Library/Application\ Support/OpenGothic/ ,
the working directory is changed there automatically, so saves and logs
are stored alongside the game data.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful program execution.
.TP
.B non-zero
An error occurred, check log.txt for details.
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at https://github.com/Try/OpenGothic/issues
.SH SEE ALSO
Project homepage: https://github.com/Try/OpenGothic
.PP
Discord community: https://discord.gg/G9XvcFQnn6
.SH AUTHORS
OpenGothic is developed by Try and contributors.
